TIP-1403: Feature Flag system (#11889)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: src/Akeneo/Platform/Bundle/FeatureFlagBundle/README.md

# FeatureFlagBundle

> Simple, stupid and yet flexible Feature Flags system for the Symfony world. Please, take 30 minutes to read the tremendous article [Feature Toggles (aka Feature Flags)

Author: way to list flags configuration

Author: change feature enabled/disabled via PR

Author: not user dependent

Author: a feature that does not exist should return false

Feature flags are defined by a _key_, representing the feature, and a _service_ which answers to the question "Is this feature enabled?". 

```yaml
// config/packages/akeneo_feature_flag.yml

akeneo_feature_flag:
    feature_flags:
        - { feature: 'onboarder', service: '@service_that_defines_if_onboarder_feature_is_enabled' }
        - { feature: 'foo', service: '@service_that_defines_if_foo_feature_is_enabled' }
        - ...
```

The most important here is to decouple the decision point (the place where I need to know if a feature is enabled) from the decision logic (how do I know if this feature is enabled). 

Your feature flag service must respect the following contract:

```php
namespace Akeneo\Platform\Bundle\FeatureFlagBundle;

interface FeatureFlag
{
    public function isEnabled(): bool
}    
```

### Examples

Let's take a very simple example: we want to (de)activate the _Onboarder_ feature via an environment variable. All we have to do is to declare the following service:

```yaml
services:
    service_that_defines_if_onboarder_feature_is_enabled:
        class: 'Akeneo\Platform\Bundle\FeatureFlagBundle\Configuration\EnvVarFeatureFlag'
        arguments:

>             - '%env(FLAG_ONBOARDER_ENABLED)%'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - '%env(bool:FLAG_ONBOARDER_ENABLED)%'
```
https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration/env_var_processors.html#built-in-environment-variable-processors

```yaml
services:
    service_that_defines_if_foo_feature_is_enabled:
        class: 'Akeneo\My\Own\Namespace\FooFeatureFlag'
        arguments:
            - '@request_stack'
``` 

```php
namespace Akeneo\My\Own\Namespace;

use Akeneo\Platform\Bundle\FeatureFlagBundle\FeatureFlag;

class FooFeatureFlag implements FeatureFlag
{
    private $akeneoIpAddress = //...
    private $requestStack;

    public function __construct(RequestStack $requestStack)
    {
        $this->requestStack = $requestStack;
    }
    
    public function isEnabled(): bool
    {
        return $this->requestStack->getCurrentRequest()->getClientIp() === $this->$akeneoIpAddress; 
    }
}
```

### About feature flag driven by an environment variable

To ease developments, the _FeatureFlagBundle_ comes with the the implementation `Akeneo\Platform\Bundle\FeatureFlagBundle\Configuration\EnvVarFeatureFlag`. It allows to know if a feature is activated by checking an environment variable. When you want to use this class, all you have to do is to declare a service.

> Please, name your environment variable `FLAG_FOO_ENABLED`, where `FOO` is obviously the name of your feature. Using this convention will allow us to enable all flags on a PR's CI. And thus you'll be able to test your feature even it's disabled on production (aka, if you have put `FLAG_FOO_ENABLED=0` in the `.env` file).

Author: > Using this convention will allow us to enable all flags on a PR's CI. And thus you'll be able to test your feature even it's disabled on production (aka, if you have put `FLAG_FOO_ENABLED=0` in the `.env` file)

this will done in a coming PR

```yaml
# form_extensions.yml

extensions:
  pim-menu-system-connection-settings:
    module: pim/menu/item
    parent: pim-menu-system-navigation-block
    feature: myCoolFeature
```

Same mechanism to disable a route if your feature is disabled:

```yaml
# requirejs.yml

config:
  config:
    pim/controller-registry:
      controllers:
        akeneo_connectivity_connection_settings_index:
          module: pim/controller/connectivity/connection/settings
          feature: myCoolFeature
``` 

### Short living feature flags

**Flags that will live from a few days to a few weeks.**

This happens typically when you develop a "small" feature bits by bits. At present, the feature is not ready to be presented to the end user, but with a few more pull requests and tests, this will be the case. 

For those use cases, we'll go simple. Inject the feature flags service (backend or frontend) in your code and branch with a straightforward `if/else`. 

**This way of working works only and only if you clean all those hideous conditionals when your feature is ready to use.** Otherwise, the code will quickly become hell of a maze with all flags setup by all different teams. 

> **Also, please take extract care on the impact your flag could have on other teams' flags.** If it becomes tedious, please adopt the same strategy than for long living flags instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Also, please take extra care on the impact your flag could have on other teams' flags.** If it becomes tedious, please adopt the same strategy as for long living flags instead.
```
